---
layout: post
title:  "Promoting transparency: a senator public voting record"
date:   2016-05-09 10:56:21 -0400
categories: senate
---

Throughout my time on the Student Senate, I have heard students make the valid
complaint of a lack of transparency within student government at RPI. The issue
of transparency has served as a hallmark issue of campaign platforms and debate
questions, and it continues to be one of the first issues students raise with
our current student government.

I have faith that our Grand Marshal and President of the Union, Paul Ilori ’17
and Chip Kirchner ’17, will lead their respective bodies with a demonstrated
example of transparency and communication, and I feel it is only fitting to do
my part as well.

As a publicly-elected official, I believe it is my duty to ensure my
constituents have sufficient access to the actions I take while representing
them. As such, I have established a voting record webpage that will detail
every substantial vote I participate in during the 47th Senate. Feeding from a
Google Spreadsheet, the page is searchable and, when clicking on a vote,
provides details about the vote’s specifics.

The Senate already has mechanisms in place for voting transparency. The Bylaws
of the Student Senate detail procedures for roll call voting, which results in
a table of members and their votes on the motion being added to the minutes.
Also, RPI TV often films Senate meetings, where votes by show of hands can be
watched. However, I believe the concept of a voluntary public voting record
gives a great opportunity for senators, Executive Board representatives, and
other members of student government bodies to do their part in improving
transparency. Furthermore, because these records are voluntary, no amendments
to the Senate Bylaws are needed.

My voting record can be found [here][record]. I strongly urge my fellow
senators to join me in this practice. For those who are not inclined to work
with web development, Google Spreadsheets offers a way to create a published
spreadsheet where the contents are visible to anyone with the link.
Instructions on how to configure a published spreadsheet on Google Drive can be
found on [their support website][googlehelp].

Variants of this post were published on [RPI's Subreddit][rpisubreddit] and in
[*The Poly*][polyarticle].


[record]: http://etz.io/votingrecord  "Justin Etzine Voting Record"
[googlehelp]: https://support.google.com/drive/answer/2494822?hl=en  "Google Drive Support"
[rpisubreddit]: http://reddit.com/r/rpi  "/r/RPI"
[polyarticle]: http://poly.rpi.edu/2016/05/04/pushing_for_transparency_for_student_government/  "Pushing for transparency for student government"
